Here's how to organize your ideas, papers, etc.

	0. Keep a single "ideas" file.

		- Time stamp whenever you write an entry for the first
		  time in that day.
		- Write down anything:
			- references
			- your ideas
			- quotes from papers and books
			- miscellaneous stuff
		- Don't worry about organizing it in a particular way.
		- This tends to keep accumulating, and since it's
		  electronic, you can search it.
		- Read the whole thing through once in a while to
		  refresh yourself with your own ideas. It's amazing
		  to find out that you had certain recurring thoughts
		  and see how they developed over time, and what
		  papers/references influenced it.

	1. Reading and filing papers:

		- Read a paper, and initially file them into
		  folders of major subject areas.

		- As you tend to recognize a particular person's
		  name over and over again, take those papers out
		  and make a new folder with that person's name
		  on it.

		- When saving a pdf file of the paper, use the
		  convention below:

			first author's last name
			journal
			year
			brief topic


		  For example, one of my IEEE TNN papers would be

			choe-tnn2004-thalamus.pdf

		- When reading a paper, see which other author's papers
		  are cited by that paper. That's usually a good way
		  of quickly assessing the paper's academic camp.

		- In general, when you read, look for keywords that
		  succintly describe what you had in mind. You may have
		  had a vague idea about something, but may not have
		  known the right words to describe it. If you find
		  a particular keyword that does the job, use that
		  to search for more references.

		  Also, again, you may have a vague (but good) idea
		  about something that you are not able to express
		  very clearly. Sometimes, during extensive reading,
		  you tend to find those thoughts expressed in the
		  sentences wrote by others, although with a slightly
		  different nuance. Write these down in your ideas
		  file. These are rare moments, but they definitely
		  help you clarify your thought and think beyond
	 	  what is written in the paper that you just read.

		- Read other papers that talk about the paper you're
		  interested in, to see how people evaluate and
		  critique that paper. After reading many such papers,
		  you will gain your own ability and style of critiquing.

	2. Reading a book

		- When I read a book, I prepare post-it flags (red, green,
		  etc.) and cut them into about 3mm thin strips, and then
		  put them on the margin so that the flaggy part jutts
		  out where I see an interesting sentence or paragraph.
		  Put the flag at the line of where the sentence
		  begins, if you're interested in that sentence.
		  Put it at the beginning of a paragraph if you
		  thought that paragraph was good.

		  The original intention was to avoid underlining library
	   	  books, but this turned out the be really effective.

		- If possible, write a short note in your "ideas" file
		  as you read. This helps you find the precise book
		  and location when you ever get the thought: "where
		  did I read about this idea?"

		- This way, you will be able to revisit a book very
		  quickly.

		- Of course, don't forget to read the book through once
	    	  in a while, ignoring the flags, since there may be
		  stuff that you didn't understand in the beginning that
		  you may find interesting later. You can only notice
		  what you already understand (I believe this is
		  similar to what Wittgenstein said at one time.)

	3. Finding a book

		- Perhaps you know this already: Find a book that
		  you are interested in, and go to the library to
		  check it out. While there, don't just pick up
	  	  that book. Browse through the neighboring bookshelves
		  since there are related books there.
